GRANT AGREEMENT
This Grant Agreement (the "Agreement") made this IS day of September 2022, by and
among the COUNTY OF CHESTERFIELD, a political subdivision of the Commonwealth of
Virginia (the "County"), the ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF THE COUNTY
OF CHESTERFIELD, a political subdivision of the Commonwealth of Virginia (the "EDA"),
and LAKE ADVENTURES, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company ("Lake"), recites and
provides as follows:
Recitals
WHEREAS, Lake plans to cause the development, by Lake and its development partners,
successors and assigns, of a mixed-use development on the property located in the County near
the intersection of Genito Road and State Route 288 and more particularly defined on Exhibit A
attached hereto (the "Property"), featuring two waterpark amenities, retail, recreational
activities, office, hotel and multifamily units, with such development having a forecasted value
of approximately Three Hundred Twenty-Three Million Dollars ($323,000,000) (the "Project");
and
WHEREAS, the County has determined that locating and constructing the Project in
Chesterfield County will provide significant economic benefits to Chesterfield County in terms
of capital investment, employment and public entertainment opportunities; and
WHEREAS, in order to assist and promote the development of the Project in the County,
the County and the EDA have agreed to make an economic development grant to Lake, through
the EDA, subject to the terms of this Agreement (the "Grant"); and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the parties to enter into this Agreement in order to set forth
the understanding of the parties in connection with the Grant and the conditions thereof.
Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the terms and provisions set forth herein and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged by the parties, it is agreed as follows:
1. Performance Obligations. In consideration of the Grant, Lake agrees for itself and
its development partners, successors and assigns that the Project will be constructed on the
Property ("Performance Obligations") in accordance with County-issued permits and approvals
for each portion thereof. The date which is the earlier of (I) thirty-six (36) full calendar months
from the date Lake has received the Operation and Maintenance Certificate for Virginia
Regulated Impounding Structures set forth in 4VAC50-20 as issued by the Virginia Department
of Conservation and Recreation for the Main Lake portion of the Performance Obligations, and
(ii) the date Lake issues notice to the EDA that Lake is ready to commence receipt of the Grant
payments, shall be referred to hereinafter as the "Performance Date".
2. Grant Terms. In consideration of and conditioned upon Lake's performance
provided herein, the County and the EDA agree to award the Grant to Lake in an amount
calculated as follows:
(i) 80% of the increase in real estate, sales and occupancy taxes collected
from any owner or lessee of the commercial and recreational portions of the Property within the
Project (except for the two 300-unit mixed use multifamily buildings) over the Baseline Value
(as defined below) for years 1-10 commencing upon the Performance Date;
(ii) 60% of the increase in real estate, sales and occupancy taxes collected
from any owner or lessee of the commercial and recreational portions of the Property within the Project (except for the two 300-unit mixed use multifamily buildings) over the Baseline Value
for years 11-20 commencing upon the Performance Date; and
(iii) 40% of the increase in real estate, sales and occupancy taxes collected
from any owner or lessee of the two 300-unit mixed use multifamily buildings over the Baseline
Value for years 1-20 commencing upon the Performance Date.
The "Baseline Value" shall mean the amount of real estate and sales taxes collected from
any owner or occupant of Property within the Project in 2022. The Grant will be paid annually
after each Tax Period (defined below) commencing upon the Performance Date and continuing
for each fiscal year thereafter until the Grant is paid in full. Such real estate tax amounts shall be
verified by the Treasurer and Real Estate Assessor of the County. Sales and occupancy tax
revenue attributable to the Project shall be verified by the Commonwealth of Virginia
Department of Taxation or the Chesterfield County Commissioner of Revenue. Lake shall
execute and/or secure from occupants of the Property authorizations or releases necessary for the
EDA or County to access tax data from the Commonwealth of Virginia or County officials
deemed reasonably necessary to confirm tax revenue generated by the Project. "Tax Period"
means the twelve-month period for which tax revenues will be measured for a Grant payment.
Each Grant payment shall be paid to Lake no later than sixty (60) days following completion of
each Tax Period.
3. General Provisions.
(a) County's Right to Inspect. The County and/or EDA shall have the
unlimited right to inspect the Project and have reasonable access to Lake's records related to the
operation and leasing of the Project which the EDA and/or County determine are necessary to
verify compliance with this Agreement.
(b) Notices. All notices and other communications required or permitted
hereunder shall be in writing and directed as follows:
If to the County, then to:
lfto the EDA, then to:
With a copy to:
If to Lake, then to:
With a copy to:
Dr. Joseph Casey, Ph.D.
County Administrator
P.O. Box 40
Chesterfield, Virginia 23832
Chairman
Economic Development Authority
c/o Chesterfield County Department of
Economic Development
9401 Courthouse Road, Suite B
Chesterfield, Virginia 23832
and
Director of Economic Development
County of Chesterfield
9401 Courthouse Road, Suite B
Chesterfield, VA 23832
County Attorney
P. 0. Box40
Chesterfield, Virginia 23832-0040
Lake Adventures, LLC
1512 Willow Lawn Dr. Suite 200
Richmond, VA 23239
Attn: Brett Burkhart
Peake Law Group, PC
14241 Midlothian Turnpike, Ste. 216
Midlothian, VA 23113
Attn: Tonia E. Peake, Esq.
All such notices and communications shall be effective upon receipt when (i) delivered by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and postage prepaid or (ii) delivered by
deposit with a reputable overnight delivery service.
(c) Amendments. Neither this Agreement nor any term, covenant, or
condition hereof may be modified or amended except by an agreement in writing, executed, and
delivered by the parties hereto.
(d) Assignment.
(i) Lake may assign this Agreement or any portion thereof, or any
funds due to it under this Agreement, including the receipt of the Grant or its rights thereto, only
to (A) any wholly-owned subsidiary or affiliate of Lake or to any successor in interest with
respect to fee simple title to the Project, or (B) any third-party lending institution or its affiliates
financing the Project (the "Bank"), the EDA acknowledging that the Bank is making a loan to
facilitate completion of the Project. The EDA and Lake agree that upon receipt of notice from
the Bank that an event of default has occurred and is occurring under the loan instruments with
the Bank for the financing of the Project, the EDA shall pay any Grant due and owing hereunder
directly to or at the direction of the Bank rather than Lake. In the event of such assignment, Lake
will remain ultimately responsible for the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
subject to the following subsection (ii) below. In the event of a foreclosure by the Bank under its
deed of trust, the Bank shall have the right to advertise and sell the Project subject to the benefits
and burdens of this Agreement and in such event, the purchaser at foreclosure shall be entitled to
any unpaid portion of the Grant, provided such purchaser has completed the Project in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(ii) Upon any permitted assignment of this Agreement, the Bank or
any other assignee of this Agreement has the right of third-party enforcement of Lake 's rights
under this Agreement, and the Bank or other assignee of this Agreement may enforce Lake's
rights pursuant to such permitted assignment with the same force and effect as if enforced by Lake. Upon such assignment, the Bank or other assignee of this Agreement may, but shall not be
required to, perform the obligations of Lake hereunder. If the Bank or other assignee of this
Agreement undertakes in writing to perform the obligations of Lake after assignment of this
Agreement, the EDA will accept its performance in lieu of performance by Lake in satisfaction
of Lake's obligations under this Agreement.
(e) Conditions Precedent. The obligations of Lake, the County, and the EDA
under this Agreement are expressly conditioned upon approval of the County's Board of
Supervisors and the appropriation by it of the necessary funds for the Grant. In the event the
County and EDA do not secure sufficient appropriations for the EDA to fulfill its obligations
hereunder as and when required, the time for payment shall be extend until such time if ever that
the County makes such appropriate to the EDA for the purpose of making Grant payments
hereunder.
(f) Joint Obligations. The provisions of this Agreement requiring two or
more parties to take action together require the named parties, acting in good faith, to take all
actions reasonably possible and within their power to accomplish the result indicated.
(g) Counterparts. This Agreement, which includes the Exhibit attached hereto
and incorporated herein, may be executed in counterparts, and if executed in counterparts, each
such counterpart shall constitute one and the same instrument. Signed counterparts of this
Agreement exchanged by electronic mail or facsimile shall be effective as originals.
(h) Non-Waiver. No party hereto shall be deemed to have waived the
exercise of any right hereunder unless such waiver is made expressly and in writing, and no such
waiver of any such right in any one instance shall be deemed a waiver as to any other instance of
any other right.
(i) Completeness; Modification. This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby and
supersedes all prior discussions, understandings, agreements, and negotiations between the
parties. This Agreement may be modified only by a written instrument duly executed by the
parties.
(j) Severability. If any term, covenant or condition of this Agreement, or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall to any extent be invalid or
unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term, covenant or
condition to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby, and each term,
covenant or condition of this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law.
(k) No Partnership. This Agreement does not and shall not be construed to
create a partnership, joint venture, or any other relationship between the parties hereto except the
relationship specifically established hereby.
(I) Days. If any action is required to be performed, or if any notice, consent
or other communication is given, on a day that is a Saturday or Sunday or a legal holiday in the
jurisdiction in which the action is required to be performed or in which is located the intended
recipient of such notice, consent or other communication, such performance shall be deemed to
be required, and such notice, consent or other communication shall be deemed to be given, on
the first business day following such Saturday, Sunday or legatl holiday. Unless otherwise
specified herein, all references herein to a "day" or "days" shall refer to calendar days and not
business days.
